We'd always been kept safe.
By a teacher as overprotective as he was tough—
a teacher who had learned life's lessons ahead of us.
24th Period Akabane Karma Graduation Time
Kayano... Thank goodness you're all right.
Nagisachoo!
Brrr...
Hey! What happened to my clothes?!
Wh-What?
How pitiable.
What is?!
Aw, c'mon.
Korosensei even fixed up your hair for you.
Thanks... but I wish he'd fixed up my clothes first.
Y'know, Korosensei's so generous with his care and all
that you might've come out of that a little better-endowed than before.
Is that so, Korosensei?
Phew... I'm beat.
Having collapsed, Korosensei seemed unusually satisfied...
and unusually frail.
Class?
What kind of an assassin would let a dying target escape?
Don't you see?
It's killing time.
All good things...
must come to an end.
That's what a classroom's all about.
The swelling light of the laser
told us eloquently, cruelly, that it was right on schedule.
We had no time to hesitate.
March 12th March 12th
Everyone...
We have to decide this ourselves.
We could choose to stay out of this and leave it up to fate.
Show of hands: Who doesn't want to kill Korosensei?
Okay, hands down.
Who wants to kill him?
They were always with us:
our guns, our knives...
and our teacher.
That was our answer.
We were killers. Our target was our teacher.
We were all painfully aware of what we had to do to our mentor
for us to graduate with our bond still intact.
Korosensei's Weak Point #33: Can be captured if everyone holds him down
You can't move when we do this, right, Korosensei?
Exactly, Nakamura-san.
But it might not work with such a weak grip.
Maybe it was ultimately to kill him,
but we tried not to think too much about that.
This was our teacher who'd praised us, scolded us, and nurtured us all year,
and we all renewed our grip on his tentacles, holding on more firmly.
Your heart is under your tie, right?
Who's going to do it?
Everyone, please...
Please... let me.
We got no complaints.
You're the head of this class, Nagisa.
Sensei...
Nagisa-kun, you can stab down through my tie.
The very day I received this tie, I managed to put a hole in it.
I left it like that.
This, too, is an important connection.
Ah, but first, I have to say my goodbyes to these teachers.
Irina-sensei, are you sure you don't want to join in?
This is your chance at that bounty.
I've gotten enough already.
So many bonds, so much experience... from you and the children both.
This assassination... is the bond between you and those kids.
And...
Karasuma-sensei.
You were the one who truly made these students what they are today.
Please continue to offer them your guidance.
I will.
You may have caused me no end of trouble,
but this is one year I'll never forget as long as I live.
Farewell, Korosensei.
Very good.
Now then, class, it's about time.
Even twenty-four hours wouldn't be enough for me to say my goodbyes to each of you in turn.
We can't talk long, so instead,
I'll take attendance one last time.
Please look me in the eye and answer in a clear voice.
Once you've all responded, you can kill me.
N-Nobody left early, did they?!
If someone didn't respond now, of all times, I'd kill myself!
Just do it already!
Korosensei's Weak Point #36
Can't stay focused when it really counts
All right.
Akabane Karma-kun.
Present.
Akabane Karma Akabane Karma
Isogai Yuuma-kun.
Present.
Isogai Yuuma Isogai Yuuma
Okajima Taiga-kun.
Present.
Okajima Taiga Okajima Taiga
Okano Hinata-san.
Uh-huh...
Okano Hinata Okano Hinata
Okuda Manami-san.
P-Present!
Okuda Manami Okuda Manami
Kataoka Megu-san.
Present.
Kataoka Megu Kataoka Megu
Kayano Kaede-san.
Present.
Kayano Kaede Kayano Kaede
Kanzaki Yukiko-san.
Present.
Kanzaki Yukiko Kanzaki Yukiko
Kimura Justice-kun.
Present!
Kimura Justice Kimura Justice
Kurahashi Hinano-san.
Present!
Kurahashi Hinano Kurahashi Hinano
Shiota Nagisa-kun.
Present.
Shiota Nagisa Shiota Nagisa
My young assassins,
Sugaya Sousuke-kun.
Present.
Sugaya Sousuke Sugaya Sousuke
you who are about to cut down a single life...
Sugino Tomohito-kun.
Present.
Sugino Tomohito Sugino Tomohito
Surely you know the value of life better than anyone,
Takebayashi Koutarou-kun.
Present.
Takebayashi Koutarou Takebayashi Koutarou
Chiba Ryuunosuke-kun.
Present.
Chiba Ryuunosuke Chiba Ryuunosuke
because you've studied,
Terasaka Ryouma-kun.
Yo.
Terasaka Ryouma Terasaka Ryouma
you've fretted,
Nakamura Rio-san.
Yep.
Nakamura Rio Nakamura Rio
and really thought this through.
Hazama Kirara-san.
Present.
Hazama Kirara Hazama Kirara
Hayami Rinka-san.
Present.
Hayami Rinka Hayami Rinka
You are what gave my life value.
Hara Sumire-san.
Present.
Hara Sumire Hara Sumire
As I fostered you all,
Fuwa Yuzuki-san.
Present!
Fuwa Yuzuki Fuwa Yuzuki
you fostered me as well.
Maehara Hiroto-kun.
Mmm.
Maehara Hiroto Maehara Hiroto
Mimura Kouki-kun.
Present.
Mimura Kouki Mimura Kouki
So please,
Muramatsu Takuya-kun.
Yeah.
Muramatsu Takuya Muramatsu Takuya
here and now,
Yada Touka-san.
Present!
Yada Touka Yada Touka
reap me with your finest bloodlust.
Yoshida Taisei-kun.
Present!
Yoshida Taisei Yoshida Taisei
If I could say I'd done my part nurturing these twenty-eight souls for their promising futures,
Autonomously Thinking Fixed Artillery—Ritsu-san.
Present.
Autonomously Thinking Fixed Artillery
I would be so happy, I could die.
Horibe Itona-kun.
Present.
Horibe Itona Horibe Itona
It was a truly, incredibly fun year.
Best of luck Best of luck Best of luck Best of luck
Best of luck Best of luck
I feel so blessed... to be killed by you all.
I have a journey ahead of me, and so do you.
So let me give you three cheers...
with my whole life!
This is it.
I have to kill him.
I'm shaking.
The shaking won't...
Don't kill me feeling like that.
Calm yourself. Smile.
The wind blows
And presses on my shoulder Ah, the road I must follow
Now lies ahead of you The wind blows
Good-bye, Korosensei.
And flips through my yearbook Yes, good-bye.
Ah, it was all so glorious
I kept my words to the bare minimum.
Gratitude, parting regrets— I put all of my emotions into my blade.
And so beautiful You understood us better
As if to pour in my very soul,
as if to thank him with all my being, Than anyone else
I offered my knife.
Surely what you taught us
Will keep guiding us on our way The cherry blossoms
Flutter to the ground
At the end, it felt like he was saying,
"Congratulations on your graduation."
Our time Ceaselessly brimming with emotion
We knew it wouldn't last, and yet we remained
Looking at the sky, unable to move Parting time
Thank you, we loved you
We feel you cheering at our backs
In this song of journey
Our time Our school, growing distant now
Precious friends, teacher of life
We found them all there Parting time
And so we graduate
To serve as our thanks, we give to you
This song of journey
Soon the clock would tick over to midnight,
and it would be graduation day at Kunugigaoka Junior High.
We'd graduated from our assassination classroom just ahead of that.
Afterward, when we returned to the classroom in search of some trace of Korosensei,
we found our diplomas, yearbooks...
and one copy of "Korosensei's Rules to Live By" for each of us.
Apparently the laser hit us at some point,
but it mattered so little to us then that we never even noticed.
Karasuma-sensei met the on-site inspection squad that showed up later
and dealt with them outside.
He said, "The students on this campus fall within my jurisdiction,"
and let our classroom be ours alone.
The incredibly thick guidebooks that Korosensei had made
started in a considerate, easy-to-read manga format,
and then...
I think the workbooks at the end there are good enough to sell!
Add some short stories for an English vocab guide worth reading!
Tch!
You could draw a spin-off manga starring me—still alive!
I could even be the big baddie!
Honestly, we got a little fed up with his overly detailed advice.
Before we knew it, we'd all forgotten our tears and were sleeping soundly.
komorebi ga yasashiku sashikomu ookina mado no naka
As the dappled sunlight shone gently through the window
When we woke in the morning and looked outside,
kimi to deatta ano hi wo tooku ni kanjita
The day I met you felt so far away
the early-blooming cherry blossoms were nodding,
small and strong.
sukoshi zutsu narabeta omoide wa boku wo atatameru
The memories I've arranged little by little keep me warm
chiisana heya tsunagu kokoro sotto oshiete kureta
A small room, hearts connecting: you taught me gently
kono kisetsu ga mukae ni kitara kimi no sugata mou sagasu koto mo
Once this season comes for me, I won't be able
dekinaku nacchaun da ne dekinaku nacchaun da ne
To seek you out anymore, will I?
zutto wasurezu ni iru yo zutto wasurezu ni iru yo
But I'll hold your memory in my heart
mata kimi ni aeru hi made mata kimi ni aeru hi made
Until the day I can see you again
Congratulations on your graduation!